README.md, before:

# WEN Program Library

A collection of solana programs maintained by the WEN developer community.


## Contents

- [Programs](#programs)
- [Building](#building)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Programs](#programs)
- [Clients](#clients)
- [CLI](#cli)
- [License](#license)

## Features

## Overview

## Building

To build the programs from the root directory of the repository:

```bash
pnpm install
```
to install the required libraries, then:
```bash
anchor build
```

This will create program binaries at `<ROOT>/target/deploy/<program_name>.so` and IDLs at `<ROOT>/target/idl/<program_name>.json`.

## Testing

All program tests are located under the [`/tests`](./tests) directory:

```bash
anchor test
```

## Programs

This project contains the following programs:

### [wen_new_standard](./programs/wen_new_standard/README.md) `wns1gDLt8fgLcGhWi5MqAqgXpwEP1JftKE9eZnXS1HM`

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/nifty-oss/asset/actions/workflows/main.yml"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nifty-oss/asset/main.yml?logo=GitHub" /></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@wen-community/wen-new-standard"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40wen-community%2Fwen-new-standard?logo=npm&color=377CC0" /></a>
  <a href="https://crates.io/crates/wen-new-standard"><img src="https://img.shields.io/crates/v/wen-new-standard?logo=rust" /></a>
</p>

The packages below can be used to interact with `wen_new_standard` program.

### JavaScript
```bash
npm install @wen-community/wen-new-standard
```

### Rust
```bash
cargo add wen_new_standard
```

## Clients

Each program in the project contains autogenerated Javascript and Rust clients:

wen new standard:
- [JavaScript](./clients/js/wen_new_standard/README.md)
- [Rust](./clients/rust/wen_new_standard/README.md)


## Contributing

Check out the [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) the learn more about how to contribute to this project.

## CLI 

Under development... follow along https://github.com/wen-community/wen-program-library/issues/80

## License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

docs: adjust readme and contributing guides to align with the repositories move to a program library

README.md, after:

# WEN Program Library

A collection of Solana programs maintained by the WEN developer community.

## Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Building](#building)
- [Programs](#programs)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Programs](#programs)
- [Clients](#clients)
- [CLI](#cli)
- [License](#license)

## Overview

WEN New Standard

WEN New Standard is a specification for representing NFTs using Token Extensions (TE). This specification is enforced and encoded through a program that currently addresses missing features such as token groups and setting up required extensions on TE.

WEN Royalty Distribution

WEN Royalty Distribution is a specification for royalties on WNS assets, which also enforces the payout of royalties through a Token Extension transfer hook.

## Building

To build the programs from the root directory of the repository:

```bash
pnpm install
```
to install the required libraries, then:
```bash
anchor build
```

This will create program binaries at `<ROOT>/target/deploy/<program_name>.so` and IDLs at `<ROOT>/target/idl/<program_name>.json`.

## Testing

All program tests are located under the [`/tests`](./tests) directory:

```bash
anchor test
```

## Programs

This project contains the following programs:

### [wen_new_standard](./programs/wen_new_standard/README.md) `wns1gDLt8fgLcGhWi5MqAqgXpwEP1JftKE9eZnXS1HM`

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/nifty-oss/asset/actions/workflows/main.yml"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nifty-oss/asset/main.yml?logo=GitHub" /></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@wen-community/wen-new-standard"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/%40wen-community%2Fwen-new-standard?logo=npm&color=377CC0" /></a>
  <a href="https://crates.io/crates/wen-new-standard"><img src="https://img.shields.io/crates/v/wen-new-standard?logo=rust" /></a>
</p>

The packages below can be used to interact with `wen_new_standard` program.

#### JavaScript
```bash
npm install @wen-community/wen-new-standard
```

#### Rust
```bash
cargo add wen_new_standard
```

### [wen_royalty_distribution](./programs/wen_royalty_distribution/README.md) `diste3nXmK7ddDTs1zb6uday6j4etCa9RChD8fJ1xay`

## Clients

Each program in the project contains autogenerated Javascript and Rust clients:

wen new standard:
- [JavaScript](./clients/js/wen_new_standard/README.md)
- [Rust](./clients/rust/wen_new_standard/README.md)


## Contributing

Check out the [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) the learn more about how to contribute to this project.

## CLI 

Under development... follow along https://github.com/wen-community/wen-program-library/issues/80

## License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
